Pseudo-IsolatedNumbers(PIN):ANew
ClassofCompositeNumbers:
Summary:
Thisarticleintroducesaresearchprogramtostudyanewcla ssof
compositenumbers,calledPseudo-IsolatedNumbers(PIN),
definedbytheiruniquepositionbetweentwoconsecutivepri me
numbers.wheredoesitgotopresentitsformaldefinition.T his
researchprogramcanopennewperspectivesinnumbertheory
andsuggestspotentialapplicationsincryptographyand
algorithmictheory,...,etc,...
Keywords:
Numbertheory,Compositenumbers,Distributionofprime
numbers,Factorization,Cryptography.MohamedChraitiI-Introduction:
Numbertheorycontinuestobeafertilesourceofmathematic al
discoveries.Thestudyoftherelationshipsbetweenprime
numbersandcompoundsregularlyrevealsnewstructuresand
properties.Inthiscontext,weintroducePseudo-Isolated
Numbers(PIN),aparticularclassofcompositenumbers
characterizedbytheirpositionbetweentwoconsecutivepr ime
numbers.NPIsrepresentanemergingclassofnumbersin
numbertheory,which,althoughnotprime,exhibituniqueand
interestingcharacteristics.Apseudo-isolatednumberis a
compositenumber,butwhichisframedbytwosuccessiveprim e
numbers,creatingaparticularfactorialstructure.Thisu nique
positionbetweentwoprimesattractsattentionbecauseitc ould
leadtoimportantdiscoveriesaboutthedistributionofpri mes
andprimefactorsacrossthesetofintegers.Althoughthecon cept
isstillintheexplorationphase,itopenspromisingavenue sfor
understandingthedistributionofintegersandthepropert iesof
primefactors.Thisresearchprogramprovidesageneral
introductiontothisconceptandexploresitsimplications ,its
connectionswithotherclassesofnumbersanditspotential
applications.
A.HistoricalContext:
Thestudyofthedistributionofprimenumbersandthe
structuressurroundingthemconstitutesafundamentalare aof
  mathematics.Classicworkongapsbetweenprimenumbers
(Erdős,1940;Goldstonetal.,2009)pavedthewayforexplor ing
thepropertiesofcompositenumbersintheseintervals.B.Motivation:
TheuniquepositionofNPIsbetweentwoconsecutiveprimes
suggestspotentiallysignificantstructuralproperties. This
researchprogramaimstoestablishthetheoreticalfoundat ionsof
thisnewclassofnumbersandexploretheirimplications.
C.InterestintheStudyofPseudo-IsolatedNumbers:
ThestudyofNPIsisparticularlyinterestingbecauseitope nsthe
waytoanewclassofnumberswhosestatisticalandalgebraic
propertiesandanalyticalpropertiesarestilllargelyunex plored.
Thesenumberscouldoffernewinsightsintothedistribution of
primefactors,includinghowcompositeintegersbehavenea r
primenumbers.Identifyinghiddenregularitiesinthe
distributionofNPIprimefactorscouldenrichtheundersta nding
offundamentalmathematicalphenomena.Additionally,NPIs
couldplayaroleinimprovingcryptographyandalgorithms
associatedwithfactoringlargenumbers,anareainwhichpr ime
numbersplayacentralrole.II.DefinitionsandFundamentalProperties:
A.OriginOfTerm :
Theterm"pseudo-isolatednumber"ischosentoreflectthe
distinctpositionandapparentsingularityofthistypeofn umber
amongtheintegers.Theword"pseudo"means"falsely"or
"appearingtobe",indicatingthatalthoughthesenumbersl iein
intervalswhereonemightimaginesomeisolation,theyaren ot
actuallyisolatedinthestrictsenseofprimenumbers,buto ccupy
auniquepositionwithrespecttoneighboringprimenumbers .
Theword"isolated"isusedbecausethesecompositenumbers are
framedbyprimenumbers,asiftheywereisolatedbetweenthe se
twoprimeintegers.However,unlikeprimenumbers,theyare not
"autonomous"inthesenseofbeingindivisible,butarecompo und
integers,havingfactorsotherthan1andthemselves.
B.FormalDefinition:
Apseudo-isolatednumberisacompositenumber,butwhich
canpossessaparticularfactorialstructure,distinguish ingitself
fromotherclassicalcompositeintegers.Anumbernisa
Pseudo-IsolatedNumberifandonlyif:
1.nisacompositenumber
2.∃p₁,p₂∈P(setofprimenumbers)suchthat:
○p₁<n<p₂
○∄p∈Psuchthat:p₁<p<p₂
Exp:4,6,12,18,30,42,60,72,102,...
ThischaracteristicplacesNPIsinauniqueposition,betwee n
twoprimes,whileexhibitingafactorialstructurethatmer its
furtherexploration.C.TheFirstFactorofPseudo-IsolatedNumbers:
TheprimefactorsoftheNPIshaveaparticularstructure.In deed,
unlikemostothercompositeintegers,NPIsseemtoexhibita
regulardistributionofprimefactors.Althoughnotprime
themselves,NPIsareoftenfactoredintoproductsofpowers of
smallprimes,leadingtospeculationthatfurtherstudyoft hese
factorscouldrevealrecurringpatterns.Understandingth efirst
factorsofNPIscouldpavethewayforgeneralizationsornew
conjecturesinnumbertheory.
D.RelationshiptoOtherNumbers :
NPIscanbecomparedtootherwell-establishedclassesof
numbers,suchastwinnumbers,semi-primesandChennumbers.
Twinnumbersarepairsofprimesthatdifferby2(e.g.,11and1 3,
17and19,etc.),andsemi-primesareproductsoftwoprimes,
whileaChennumberisaprimenumberpsuchthatp+2iseither
aprimenumber(thusformingapairoftwinprimenumbers),or
theproductoftwoprimenumbers(asemi-prime).NPIsshare
characteristicswiththesethreetypesofnumbers:justliket win
numbers,NPIsareoftenframedbysuccessiveprimes,andjust
likesemi-primes,theyarecompositenumberswhosefactori al
structurecanofferpatternsinteresting,andalthoughthe two
conceptsNPIandChennumbersseemdifferentatfirstglance,
theyshareacommoninterest:thestudyoftherelationships
betweenprimenumbersandcompositenumbers.Studyingthes e
relationshipscouldprovideaframeworktobetterundersta ndthe
behaviorofNPIsandtheirplaceinthehierarchyofintegers.III-Studyapproaches :
A.StatisticalApproachtotheStudyofNPIs:
ThestudyofNPIsbenefitsfromastatisticalapproachwhich
makesitpossibletotesthypothesesontheirdistributiona nd
theirstructurewhichcanbeusedtocomparethedistributio nof
theprimefactorsoftheNPIstoclassicallawsorthenormallaw .
Statisticaltestscanalsobeusedtoexplorethedistributi onof
successivegapsbetweenNPIs.Thisanalysiscouldreveal
whetherthesedeviationsfollowspecificdistributions,su chas
thatofprimenumbers,andcouldthusstrengthenorrefine
conjecturesregardingthedistributionofNPIs .
B.AlgebraicApproach:
ThealgebraicapproachtothestudyofNPIsreliesonexamini ng
theirpropertiesinextensionsoffieldsandanalyzingthei rprime
factorsinabroaderframework,suchasalgebraicnumbertheo ry.
OneavenueofresearchcouldbetostudyNPIsinthecontextof
extensionsofcyclicfields,wheretheprimefactorsofNPIsa re
consideredinanabstractalgebraframework.Furthermore,t he
GaloisgroupsassociatedwithNPIscouldofferinformation onthe
symmetryandinternalstructureofthesenumbers,thusshed ding
lightonhowNPIsbehaveinmoregeneralsystemsofalgebraic
integers..
C.AnalyticalApproach:
AnanalyticalapproachtothestudyofNPIsinvolvestheuseo f
techniquesfromrealandcomplexanalysistounderstandthei r
properties.Thisincludesexploringthecountingfunctions
associatedwiththesenumbers,aswellasstudyingtheirdens ities
andasymptoticdistributions.Analyticalmethodscanbeus edto
studythediscrepanciesbetweenpseudo-isolatednumbersan dsuccessiveprimenumbers.Inparticular,theanalysisofth e
averagedeviationsandthedistributionofNPIscouldmakei t
possibletodevelopconjecturesontheirbehavioronalarges cale.
Toolssuchastheanalysisofseriessummationsortheuseofze ta
functionscouldbeusedtoobtainmorepreciseresultsonthe ir
relativefrequencyinthesetofintegers.Theapproach
analyticalcouldalsoinvolvethemethodofexponentialsum s,
usedtostudythedistributionofprimenumbersandtheir
neighbors,andwhichcouldfindapplicationsinthestudyof
NPIs.
D.RelationshipwithotherConjectures:
Pseudo-isolatednumberscanberelatedtoseveralfamous
conjecturesinnumbertheory,particularlythoseconcerni ngthe
distributionofprimenumbersandcompositenumbers.Afirs t
conjecturetoexploreisthetwinprimeconjecture,whichst ates
thatthereareinfinitelymanypairsofprimenumbersthatdi ffer
by2.NPIs,ascompositenumberslocatedbetweentwosuccess ive
primes,canofferinsightsonthestructureofpairsofneigh boring
primenumbers.NPIscouldalsobeexploredwithinthe
frameworkoftheGoldbachconjecture,whichproposesthatev ery
evennumbergreaterthan2canbeexpressedasthesumoftwo
primenumbers.TheNPIs,beingcomposedofprimefactorsand
locatedbetweentwosuccessiveprimenumbers,couldoffer
interestinglinkswithresultsrelatingtothisconjecture,
particularlyforintegersclosetothesenumbers.Addition ally,
NPIscouldbestudiedfromtheperspectiveofthedistributi onof
semiprimes(productsoftwoprimes),whichisrelatedtoman y
conjecturesandtheoremsinnumbertheory.Therelationships
betweenNPIsandsemi-primescouldmakeitpossibletopropo se
newconjecturesonthedistributionofprimeproductsinthe setof
integers.IV.PotentialApplicationsandImplications:
ThestudyofNPIshaspotentialapplicationsinseveralarea sof
appliedmathematics,notablyincryptographyandcomputer
security.Inmoderncryptography,thedifficultyoffactori nglarge
numberscomposedoftwoprimefactorsisessentialtoensuri ng
thesecurityofcommunicationsystems.Abetterunderstandi ngof
NPIscouldleadtoimprovementsinfactoringalgorithms,ore ven
thediscoveryofnewmethodsfortestingprimalityorfactor ing
compositenumbersmoreefficiently.Additionally,thestud yof
NPIscouldhaveapplicationsinpuremathematics,notablyi n
numbertheory,whereregularitiesdetectedinprimefactor scould
shedlightonopenquestions,suchasthedistributionofprim es
andothercompositenumbers.
V.ConclusionandResearchPerspectives:
Pseudo-isolatednumbersconstituteapromisingresearcht opicin
numbertheory.Althoughthisfieldisstillinitsinfancy,i tcould
offernewinsightsintothedistributionofprimefactorsan dthe
internalstructureofcompositenumbers.Exploringthe
relationshipsbetweenNPIsandotherclassesofnumbers,su chas
twinnumbersorsemiprimes,couldopenavenuesforfuture
conjecturesandtheories.Furthermore,studyingNPIsinan
algebraicframeworkcouldrevealhiddenpropertiesthaten rich
ourunderstandingoftheunderlyingstructuresofintegers .Thus,
NPIresearchcouldnotonlyhavepracticalapplicationsin
cryptography,butalsocontributetotheexpansionofour
knowledgeofnumbertheoryandotherbranchesofmathematic s.SummaryofKeyConcepts:
●DefinitionofNPI:Apseudo-isolatednumberisacomposite
number,framedbytwosuccessiveprimenumbers.
●Relationshiptoothernumbers:NPIshavesimilaritieswith
twinnumbers,semi-primesandChennumbers.
●Potentialapplications:NPIscouldhaveapplicationsin
cryptography,particularlyinprimalitytestingand
factorizationalgorithms,...,...About:
Author:
●NameandFirstname :MohamedChraiti
●Nationality :Tunisian
●Country:Tunisia
●Shortbiography :Programmer,interestedin:
mathematics,artificialintelligence,philosophy,literature,
history,...,..
●E-mail:mohamed.anchraiti@hotmail.com
●Linkedin: www.linkedin.com/in/mohamed-chrt
●Facebook: www.facebook.com/profile.php?id=100088956147185